## Potential Impacts on NERSC from California Wildfire Season

### Summary
PG&E, which provides power to Berkeley Lab (and NERSC), is taking a more
conservative approach to wildfire prevention, which may result in power lines
being de-energized and the power to the NERSC machine room being cut with little
advance notice. While the chances are low that this will happen, NERSC has
plans for shutting down Cori smoothly (with enough advance warning) and
informing users. Users can also look at <http://status.lbl.gov/> to find out the
latest status of NERSC as well as Berkeley Lab as a whole.

### Detailed Background on PG&E's Decision
Last year, the most devastating wildfires in California history destroyed more
than 1.8 million acres, killed over 100 people, and cost more than $3.5 billion
in damages. One fire in particular, known as the Camp Fire, was the deadliest
and most destructive wildfire in California history, and was likely caused by
the failure of infrastructure belonging to California's largest utility 
provider, PG&E, under high wind conditions.

California's weather may seem strange to newcomers (especially those of us from
rainier climes!); winter is a rainy season (with snow at higher altitudes), and 
for the rest of the year there is little to no rain. The fall is punctuated with
strong winds. When combinded with hot and dry conditions, these high winds 
result in what are called "Red Flag" days, when outdoor activities that could 
lead to sparks or fire are actively discouraged owing to the risks of flames 
quickly overtaking wildland areas.

The Camp Fire started on one of these "Red Flag" days when PG&E's powerlines
sparked in an area that had never burned in recorded history. The fire quickly
spread and was not fully contained until 17 days later.

As a result of having contributed to the largest fire in California history,
PG&E has begun to take a more conservative approach on these "Red Flag" days. 
They have informed NERSC that they reserve the right to deactivate power lines 
on "Red Flag" days, with little advance notice. The implications are that NERSC 
may lose power with little notice.

In the unlikely case that we must turn off NERSC resources due to an impending 
power cut, we will inform users when we begin the shutdown process. After the 
power is cut, if you are longer able to reach NERSC by phone or on the internet,updates about the status of NERSC will be available at <http://status.lbl.gov>, 
which will have a status entry about NERSC.
