## Sign up Now for UPC++ Workshop on December 16 at NERSC

[Registration is now open](https://www.exascaleproject.org/event/upcpp/) for
for the free one-day ECP/NERSC UPC++ tutorial.

This event is a repeat of the tutorial delivered on November 1, but with the 
restoration of the hands-on component which was omitted due to uncertainty 
surrounding the power outage at NERSC.

UPC++ is a C++11 library providing classes and functions that support
Partitioned Global Address Space (PGAS) programming. UPC++ provides mechanisms
for low-overhead one-sided communication, moving computation to data through
remote-procedure calls, and expressing dependencies between asynchronous
computations and data movement. It is particularly well-suited for implementing
elaborate distributed data structures where communication is irregular or
fine-grained. The UPC++ interfaces are designed to be composable and similar to
those used in conventional C++. The UPC++ programmer can expect communication to
run at close to hardware speeds.

In this tutorial we will introduce basic concepts and advanced optimization
techniques of UPC++. We will discuss the UPC++ memory and execution models and
walk through implementing basic algorithms in UPC++. We will discuss irregular
applications and how to take advantage of UPC++ features to optimize their
performance.  The tutorial will include hands-on exercises with basic UPC++
constructs. Registrants will be given access to run their UPC++ exercises on
NERSC's Cori (currently the #14 fastest computer in the world).

This event can be attended on-site at NERSC or remotely via the free Zoom
video-conferencing application. The remote connection information will be
provided to the registrants closer to the event. 
[Registration is required](https://www.exascaleproject.org/event/upcpp/) for
this event and space is limited so please register as soon as possible.
**Registration closes when the limit is reached or on Dec 1, 2019**.

